# Setup CodePipeline

## Why

First, let's answer to one important question: __Why Infrastructure as Code for CI/CD?__

The answer is simple.

### The standard

Infrastructure as Code should be used as a standard way to build infrastructure. In this case, pipeline is the infrastructure also.

### Maintainability

It is definitelly easier to maintain and control resources when IaC is used.

### Control

Not for this workshop, but IaC helps to keep clean environment and keep secured and working platform.

### And many other

IaC has a lot of advantages. Though, this is not the place to talk about it.

## CloudFormation

This is AWS workshop, so CloudFormation is used to create Pipeline.

### Create stack

In order to create stack, run:

```bash
aws cloudformation --profile pyconf validate-template --template-body file://IaC/Codepipeline.yml
```

To be sure, if the template is valid. If yes, execute:

```bash
aws cloudformation --profile pyconf create-stack --stack-name LambdaPipeline --template-body file://IaC/Codepipeline.yml --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM --parameters ParameterKey=notificationEmail,ParameterValue='my@email.com' ParameterKey=repositoryName,ParameterValue='cicd-lambda'
```

Additional parameter,  `notificationEmail`, will be added as a subscriber to SNS topic. CodePipeline uses this topic to notify when ChangeSet can be reviewed.

Second parameter - `repositoryName` - gives the repo name to the CodePipeline

#### Changes needed

In case of any change needed in the created CloudFormation stacks, use ChangeSets

```bash
aws cloudformation --profile pyconf create-change-set --stack-name LambdaPipeline --change-set-name ProjectUpdate --template-body file://IaC/Codepipeline.yml --description "ChangeSet Name" --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM --parameters ParameterKey=notificationEmail,ParameterValue='my@email.com' ParameterKey=repositoryName,ParameterValue='cicd-lambda'
```

Check what is inside and if all is ok, execute ChangeSet

```bash
aws --profile pyconf cloudformation describe-change-set --stack-name LambdaPipeline --change-set-name ProjectUpdate

aws --profile pyconf cloudformation execute-change-set --stack-name LambdaPipeline --change-set-name ProjectUpdate
```

## What is created

CloudFormation template creates multiple resources

* S3 buckets for pipeline artifacts
* IAM roles and policies for CodePipeline CodeBuilds and CloudWatch Event
* Codepipeline
* GetSource stage (which is related to CodeCommit in CodePipeline)
* CodeBuild for testing the Python code
* CodeDeploy for Lambda deployment
* SNS Topic to handle notifications from Manual approval gate
